Pocket Planets
--------------

A small lunchtime 4x game.

Build your space-age civilization by colonising planets and asteroids, mining for resources, trading between worlds, attacking the neighbours.
Each planet has upto 16 slots to build things on ( keeping idea of small worlds )
Buildings being housing, luxuries, research, engineering, military, powerplants, spaceports, mining, farming, probably some others...
Research new things to build space stations, better ships, weapons, and perhaps the big one would be to find a way to make a tear on demand? Wormholes? System Gates?
(perhaps that's the end goal - travel to other galaxies safely via something like a warp gate, rather than relying on a tear)

Procedurally generate the systems and galaxies.

What is a Galaxy?
A collection of Systems.

What is a System?
A collection of planets and asteroids and probably a sun ( or two? or none? or just have it always in the centre? )

What is a Planet?
A small grid of buildings that determine what it's inputs and outputs are...
Sprites: sprPlanets - each image is a different planet type? Go with that for now... Probably want a sprite set for each size
Planet Types: Green ( farming bonus ), Rocky ( mining bonus ), Volcanic, Desert 
Planet Sizes: Tiny ( 1 - likely asteroids ) Small ( 2x2 - large asteroids ) Medium ( 3x3 ) Large ( 4x4 ) Massive? ( 5x5 )


What is a Ship?
A collection of components for transferring resources.
Resources could be minerals, people, bits of space ship, etc..
One component per resource.
Better ships can contain more components.
Ship Sizes: Tiny ( 1 ) Small ( 2 ) Medium ( 3 ) Large ( 4 ) Huge ( 5 )
Probably want a sprite set for each ship to look fancy.. for now, arrows!

What is a Station
A collection of modules ( effectively ships... ) bolted together
Modules effectively the same as buildings, plus a 4-way joiner to connect modules to
Or do we want to have a max size of 4 modules per station?
Might be easier that way... command centre in the middle, and one other module on each side.

What is Time?
Realtime.. meant to be quick lunchtime game ( so hour at most to complete whatever goal )
Controls to speed up/slow down time? Have everything run off a timer on main object? maybe...

What is on a Screen?
Try and keep things to one screen each... so a screen to see all galaxies, a screen to see all planets in that system, a screen to see layout of current ship/planet/asteroid/etc..
Means we can probably use the rooms to handle this, with an overall controller/data structure that stores everything.
Also means that we can quick throw things together which are perhaps boring and stat heavy, and upgrade them to pretty graphics as time permits.

What is a Resource?
A Resource can be one of:
Minerals - generated from planet, consumed by mines
Materials - generated from mines, base resource for everything
Food - generated from planet, consumed by people
Water - generated from planet, consumed by people
Goods - generated by traders, consumed by traders/people
People - generated by people, consumed by housing
Weapons - generated by military, consumed by military
Equipment - generated by factories, consumed by people/factories/mines/etc... repairs and so forth
Station Module - generated by starport, consumed by space station

What is a Mineral?
Do we split down to Metal, Plastic, etc? or just "Minerals" ... we'll keep it at Minerals for now...
