Outline of Tasks
----------------

Doing the Competition so we have 48 hours.
Starting "late" as went to sleep normally.. time is currently 10:30am - 8.5 hours into it.
As there's no way that I can do a straight battering throughout the weekend, lets work out a plan...

Saturday
--------

10.30 - 11am
These notes; sort out ideas and get basic project up and running, committed, etc..
Pick main test platform ( probably HTML5 so more people can play it, and to stop little surprises again like last time - hello, randomize() )


11 - 12pm
Mock up graphics for ships and planets ( read: arrows and circles )
Work on System generation, to scatter Planets about the screen.
This'll basically be Galaxy generation too, just instead of planets, it's systems... different icon on screen, and different data structure but same idea

12 - 7pm
Probably busy with other things..

7 - 8pm
Work on Planet generation, and get slots working for each building type.
Make sure Planet stats update as accordingly.
< -- YOU ARE HERE -- >
8 - 9pm
Work on Ship generation.
Get ships to move from A->B.

9 - 10pm
Get resources moving about between Planets via Ships

10 - 11pm
Work on Research trees to make better Ships to do more things

11 - 12am
Work on Space Stations so we can create things in space closer to Asteroid belts, anomolies, etc..
< -- You should be here... -- >


--- OK End of Day one and we are way behind...
Why?
UI stuff... and overloading the design with things that I don't think I'll be able to finish off, so let's break it down further.

We want a "lunchtime" 4x game.
That means we strip back a lot of what a 4X game is to basic blocks.
Looking at MOO - it gives one planet per system.. perhaps that's the way to go?
It then gives some options for allocating yearly points to building a ship, industry, eco-friendliness, technology, and defense.
Short of that, there's nothing much else you can do to planets. You can transport colonists between systems "free" without having to build a ship first.
Ships are interesting in that they do let you design them a bit.. and range from small to huge.
It's turn-based, each turn being a year, and a lot of science researchy stuff going on.
Combat handled in entirely different interface.
Planets have upper limit of colonists, which seem to determine the yearly points you get to spend.

So with that.. what's the takeaway?
We'd like the ship configuration stuff, but at this point ( literal mid way mark ) it's not going to happen, so will be fixed Colony, Scout, Fighter, Destroyer, Dreadnaught
Going to need a tech tree to research, but it's likely going to be Shields mk 1 - 5, Missiles mk 1 - 5, Laser mk 1 - 5, Projectile mk 1 - 5, Scanning mk 1 - 5, Terraforming mk 1 - 5
Get rid of the trade route stuff.. nevermind transferring food/materials back and forth for now ( though would have turned it into Space Settlers, with ships milling about everywhere )
Increase the size of the room and have a relatively big system - and only one system - nevermind the multiple galaxies, tears, warpgate stuff.. nice idea, but not just now.
So, to explore, we'll need to build scout ships which are fast and small. Colony ships to expand. Fighters to take out the undesirables. Destroyers to make a point, and Dreadnaughts when we've had enough.
Resource wise... I think the catch all "Minerals" is probably best.. and have each planet handle things like MOO - ship building, industry, eco, tech and defense - where planets with extra minerals give industry bonuses, and so forth.
Meant to be a lunchtime 4x, not micromanaging space-bus routes.

See Sunday's plan Part 2 for a breakdown.



Sunday (Original)
------

12 - 1am
Test build.. Should hopefully have small playable at this point of a generated System, with multiple Planets, and lots of little Ships milling about.

1am - 8am
Sleep...

8 - 9am
Test build.. nothing broke overnight? Everything still playable? Still feel "fun"?
Work out bug list and task list for rest of the day

9 - 10am
Work on getting to other galaxies.. so tears and the permanant solution ( warp gates, probably )

10 - 11am
Basic Passive AI for other species..

12 - 8pm
Likely other things...

8 - 9pm
Basic Aggressive AI for other species.. so work on ship - ship attack, and ship - planet attack
Damage for ships and planets and buildings and repair works etc...

9 - 10pm
Test Build.. so we should have a fully working game at this point.. see there's no major bugs

10 - 11pm
Sound effects

11 - 12am
Music

12 - 1am
Polish? Tidy up?

1 - 2am
Test Build and Submit .. and pray Monday isn't too demanding

Total "guaranteed" work hours: 15
That's tight...
Total "possible" work hours: 31 - say 3 for eating - 28
Likely somewhere around 20.. much like Mini Dungeon Adentures.. but we're going in just after a jam, so still have the momentum.
That's the theory...

-------------------------------------------

Sunday Part 2
-------------

1am - 2am
Have a small crisis that things aren't going to plan and re-evaluate everything.

2 - 3am
Quick play of MOO and Stars! to refresh memory on how they worked, and be shocked at how simple MOO actually was.
Break down the design of Pocket Planets and chuck most of it away

3 - 7am
Sleep

7 - 8am
Rip out most images and current building GUI stuff
Build GUI elements for managing planet resources.
Build GUI elements for ship building.

8 - 9am
Work out formulas for resources and tech trees

9 - 10am
Get ship creation working - particularly so that extra bits will affect the ship.

10 - 11am
Basic passive AI - so have ships wandering around, and some AI have a bit of control over their colonies

11 - 1pm
Lunch, most likely

1 - 2pm
Basic agressive AI - have it attack and work out attack screen? may just be explosions in space and one disappears

2 - 3pm
Sound effects

3 - 4pm
Music

4 - 6pm
Upgrade graphics

6 - 7pm
Tea, most likely

7 - 8pm
Test Build

8 - 9pm
May need an end goal defined and worked out.. if we're not using galaxies and the tear/warp gate mechanics, going to need something else...

9 - 10pm
Break

10 - 11pm
Test Build again... fix anything strange

11 - 12am
Submit